## Day 15 of Internship at SurfBoard:

Today we had a session by Ernest on the topic of Introduction about User Interface (UI), User Experience (UX) & Wireframes. I already have a certain understanding on the topic but it was interesting to hear more in depth and real scenario examples. User Interface (UI) is the feel and looks of the interface through which a user takes information, gives inputs and gets what they want. UI also works hand-in-hand with the User Experience (UX) and is mostly confused when people talk about them. Ernest used the example of the Google Pay (GPay) app and how their user interface is designed to make sure everything is accessible. He also showed how their user experience has changed over the years since users had complained of long waiting times for a successful transaction message to appear. And now it is much more optimised than before. User interfaces also take advantage of showing illustrations, relevant ad content or quotes to curtain the waiting time and let the user have a seamless journey through the app. Apps like Zomato or Uber utilise such strategies and showing illustrations that their order is being prepared or your driver is fully vaccinated to mask the background operations that are taking place by showing something relevant or useful to the user. It takes a lot of planning and research over user behaviours using surveys and interviews to be able to understand how the user might experience a certain flow through an app. Mostly all companies start their design phase with the wireframing of the app or website. Wireframing allows to put down all the requirements for the design and discussions are held on what to keep and what to add. The wireframing design would lead to having a low fidelity design of the over app outlining the possible flow structure through the app that a user would be able to take. This stage is important so as to save time in the future and not make drastic changes later on that can be time consuming and expensive from a management point of view. He also talked about the SurfPay app that is going to be released very soon, and how their team is handling things from design to development and testing. He also mentioned how there is careful focus on the user experience even for error messages that pop up in case of transaction failure with good, polite wordings. He also mentioned how optimising certain code could save a few seconds on the operations on the app could actually make a huge difference in the way the user experiences it. So this session was really insightful into the inner working of UI, UX and Wireframing aspects. 

Other than the session, I read a lot about Product Management and understood how a product manager works and views the whole product. I understood the 7 steps involved in the Product Management process and how the focus shifts through each process of the product roadmap. I also understood the differences between a product manager and a product owner. I’m looking forward to learn more about the Agile work lifecycle later on. 

Status update on the Flutter app: Today I fixed some issues with the UI of the login page. I started working on the second page of the app and hopefully will be done with another screen by Monday. 

