## Day 12 of Internship at SurfBoard

Today we had session by Mr.Abraham himself about Data and how data is used to communicate with the computer. All Data that the computer stores is understood by the computer as electrical signals in the form of binary numbers, i.e, 0s or 1s. In a computer, its all about the numbers, everything and anything are infact based on numbers. He also talked about how characters and strings are also in a form a binary or hexadecimal number. Formats such as ASCII (American Standard Code Interchange Information) and UTF (Unicode transformation Format) translate the letters, symbols/glyphs and special character into numbers the computer understands on an assembly level. We use high-level programming  languages to program and codes things like apps and websites. But why do we use characters and syntaxes to code and not just numbers if thats what the computer understands? We use these kind languages not just for the computer to make it understand what we want and our purpose but the main reason is to make it readable code to us humans. The code we write must be understandable but anyone else who takes a look at that code. It must be clean and understandable so that the next person to use it can understand and use it to communicate with the computer. That's what I understood from this session. 

Other the main session, I spent my whole day trying to figure out the Flutter framework. I am still trying to understand to how understand how the layouts work but I feel Im getting close to understanding it. I also learnt about States in flutter and there are two kinds of state widgets that can used, they are `StatelessWidget` and `StatefulWidget`. A StatelessWidget is just a normal widget class which which does need any changes or reload to change how it appears and is mostly static. To have more dynamic changes we have the `StatefulWidget`, which helps to have changing elements or widgets based on the condition of the State that it is in and changes according to the user's input. There is a predefined setState() method which checks and execute the code within once the state change is activated. A commonly example of stateful widget would be an icon having notification number on it which changes according to the number of unseen messages. 

Another thing I learned today with regard to flutter is, that there are public and private classes. A public class can be accessed from another class from another dart file in the same project. A private class cannot be accessed like the public class but it is available to be called within the same dart file. The only difference between the two is that a private class have a preceding `_` underscore before the class name. For eg: `_MyHomepage`.

I also learned that it takes time and practice to be able to understand certain concepts and it’s okay if dont get it right away. It’s just a process of learning when you get stuck but there’s always a way out when you ask the right questions. 



