## Day 13 of Internship at SurfBoard:

Today Abraham continued on the topic from yesterday regarding Data, how we write program for not just to communicate with a computer but the program code is for us, humans. It was very informative to learn on a deeper level on how the computer understands what we are giving in the form of binary numbers, characters or literals or booleans. And how someone or a group of people in the past wrote code in such a way that the computer can understand what we are commanding it to do now. So basically there are compilers at work that are translating what we say in high level programming language into something that the computer can understand in the form of low level assembly languages. There are still people who specialise in writing these kind of assembly language programs. In the past, it was very important to have programming languages like C which can handle memory management and garbage collection to optimise its usage of RAM since back in the day there was only 4MB of RAM. Nowadays the technology for memory chips has advanced by great bounds and we even have 8GBs of RAM on our phones while our computers can have 32Gb or more too. So memory costs in the program life cycle has gone down by a whole lot and so has introduced a wave of high level languages like Javascript, Dart, Python that don’t really concern themselves with the memory management part that much now.  Although there are some use cases where it is highly necessary to have programs to be written in C language for lightning fast processing of instructions and commands mostly used in the emergency reporting sectors. Even with all the different programming languages out there, it is basically someone who has derived a language for us to be able to communicate and tell a computer what to do. A computer by its own will and itself can't do anything or perform any task. It does not possess life. Someone writes down instructions for it so it acts according to the set of instructions. The same applies to even Artificial Intelligence, since computers are trained with a set of instructions and mathematical calculations in the form of neural networks and machine learning techniques to be able to create new commands based on the previously given input commands it has already received. It does not mean the computer itself has received sentience and life to make its own life decision even as an AI. Abraham also told us to go search about a new AI that was launched recently called  “DALL-E”. I read about it and its pretty interesting as well as embarrassing that a computer is now good at drawing things based on just text-input. Although the reason behind it being so perfect is that there was a team that put together their minds and built it from scratch with commands and instructions for it to be able to do such a specific task. 

Koushik continued that session and talked about the English language. We use it commonly in workplaces, in schools and in social circles a lot. The English language also contains the following: 
Symbols which are Alphabets from a - z in lowercase, and A - Z in uppercase.
Words/ Tokens which are a collection of symbols also referred to as words.
Expressions which are a collection of tokens, and can be any statement, paragraph, articles, blog, books or chapters. 
Grammar which is the integral part which shows how to write a statement.

A sentence or expression without a set of predefined rules in a language would not make sense if we can't put them together. Koushik showed us a few examples of how our brain can still comprehend certain sentences which are having jumbled up letters between words or sentences without any spaces or punctuations. Our brains are capable of still understanding it as a language that makes sense somehow. The English language also has certain rules that are followed in any sentence. All sentence must have either of the following structures: 
- Subject - Verb - Adjective (He writes meaningless words)
- Subject - Verb - Adverb (She types quickly)
- Subject - Verb - Object (She swam to the shore)
- Subject - Verb (The boy had eaten)
- Subject - Verb - Noun (He ate an apple)

So it is crucial to identify each of these properties in a sentence and arrange them accordingly to make any sense at all. There are also other factors that also play a role in putting it all together. They are:

- Spelling
- Punctuation
- Order of tokens
- Spacing
- Capitals, lowercase
- Tenses
- Paragraphs

So the understanding of any language comes when three processes happens:
`Lexical Analysis -> Syntax Analysis -> Semantic Analysis`

After the semantic analysis is the part where everything is compiled as a compilation that has meaning and purpose. The same is also seen with any programming language that also follows the same three analysis processes and sent to a compiler which compiles all the information and outputs it in the form that the user can understand. 

We were also given a task on trying to make up our own language without using ciphering techniques and most probably show it by Monday.  

Beside the sessions, I also figured out how to layout the structure in Flutter using the Dart language. I feel like I have taken the first step in mastering the ocean of the Flutter development world. I am also getting ready to present my app idea to everyone tomorrow during the presentation.

