## Day 11 of Internship at SurfBoard:


There was no session today, so today was a day of self-learning and for myself, preparing the demo presentation that is this coming Friday. I spent most of the day finalising the design of the app idea “Find A New Owner” and I’ve come up with the nickname as “FANO” which is just its abbreviation. While completing the design on Figma, there were a few more things I learned through the process. I learned more clearly on how to make elements on a screen to look scrollable in the prototype view. I also figured out how to clearly link screens from the tap on the screen as well as making special UI effects visible in figma’s prototype mode. 
I realised that there is yet a lot more to learn in Figma, and hopefully as I keep working on more fun and small projects, I will be able to slowly master it. 

Since I have to develop the design into life with the help of Flutter, I have been going through documentations and tutorials on Flutter and its programming language, Dart. It feels quite similar yet so distant to the traditional web development using HTML, CSS and Javascript. Although Flutter does use a compiler that translates the Dart code to Javascript, It does take quite a learning curve to get a grasp of the structure of the code. As Dart is an Object Oriented Programming language, it shares certain similarities with C++, C# and JAVA. Personally I have never worked with any of these languages, but I don't think it would be a big deal in learning to write good code in Dart language for the Flutter framework. 

I was a bit flustered today on where to start with Flutter so I asked Joel for help to point me in some direction. He helped me out by showing me what and how Flutter is, and how it’s code structure is uniform. By using this uniform pattern, we can make layouts that we want. He emphasised that there are class systems that are majorly used which are the Container class, Row Class and Column Class. And each class has their own pre-defined properties which can be used to manipulate its behaviour on the application. I need to practise more with the basic structure and flow of the code system to be able to start with my demo project. So Tomorrow’s main objective for me is to be able to figure out at least the design of the login page as the bare minimum so that I can keep my deadline on friday. 

Here is the link to the prototype of the app idea “Find a new owner”, aka FANO:

```https://www.figma.com/proto/1qpQyDMWn9uQiYMTYc0kWd/App-idea---Find-a-new-owner?node-id=9%3A273&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=3%3A2```

One of my fellow interns, Arun, took a presentation on Computer Networks. He told us about the different kinds of Computer networks, the hardwares used in a network as well as in a computer.
The different types of Computer Networks are: 

- Local Area Network (LAN)
- Wide Area Network (WAN)
- Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)

He also covered about the different hardware present in a network that may it work like :

- Routers
- Switches
- Hub
- Bridge

We also learned about the different modules and hardware components present in a computer. Such as:

- Motherboard
- ROM
- RAM
- Power Supply Unit
- Harddisk (HDD) and Solid State Drives (SSD)
- Computer peripherals
- CPU (Control Processing Unit)
- Graphics Card (VGA)

It was good to refresh our memory about the computer networks and its uses as well as the hardware components in a computer.

